hello ladies and gentlemen this is chef
guru from gurus cooking calm with
Punjabi channa masala I have here with
me
two cups of China which is also called
kabali China they have soaked this in 6
cups of water and kept this for 8 hours
to soak after 8 hours will pressure cook
this Shahnaz which are also called
kabali chana in a pressure cooker along
with the 6 cups of water and a pinch of
baking soda baking soda makes your
China's even softer and it behaves like
a tenderizer so if you see if I can hold
and grab one of these channels in my
hand and try to squeeze them the easily
squeeze in between my fingers will keep
this chana and the water aside will use
both of them later on for the time being
will take a cut high in this cry we'll
be adding 4 tablespoons of desi ghee or
clarified butter drop 1 inch of cinnamon
stick keep cooking at a low flame and
now we will add 2 bay leaves 4 by 2
black cardamom and 1 star anise we'll
add 3 cloves
and 1 teaspoon of jeera or cumin seeds
when the jeera splutters we'll be adding
2 large onions that have been finely
chopped
and now if you wish you may increase the
flame from low to medium high it's time
we saute these onions along with these
whole spices that we've added and like I
said I prefer ghee for this recipe you
may also use a vegetable oil or canola
oil in case you do not have key at that
instance of time we'll add 1 teaspoon of
salt adding salt at this time
accelerates the process of cooking the
onions and will also drop in 1 teaspoon
1 large TSP of ginger-garlic paste the
ginger here is 70% in the ginger garlic
paste and the obvious garlic that is
available is 30%
so we'll saute this all these mixtures
along until the raw flavors the raw
aroma of the ginger garlic paste wafts
through the air and your onions turn
golden brown so you really have to cook
this pretty well otherwise your chole
masala will not really taste good
we'll now add 3 finely chopped green
chilies for some spicy and hotness and
we'll saute them along with the
ginger-garlic paste and the onions
after a few minutes we'll add 3 chopped
tomatoes now usually in my recipes I
show you things which are pretty quick
so the onions and the ginger garlic
paste and all these things that we
cooked already takes approximately
around five to six minutes which I just
showed in my video for around you know
one or two minutes so please do not
follow the time of the video you take
your own time the video is cut short and
edited a lot of times now ladies and
gentlemen after adding the tomatoes they
will splatter a lot of liquid onto your
hands onto your palms into the air so
please lower the flame now and in fact
we'll be adding a few spices as well so
it is well recommended you lower the
flame at this instants of time and let's
add a few spices now
we've already added a lot of garam
masala in whole so now we'll add half a
teaspoon of garam masala only we've
already added one teaspoon of salt
we'll add one teaspoon of salt again so
total it is two teaspoons of salt in
this recipe we'll add one and a half
teaspoon of coriander powder
one teaspoon of red chili powder
and one teaspoon of dry ginger powder
which is also pronounced as saundh in
the how do you pronounce that sound so
when you say that th your tongue touches
your upper lip so we'll saute all this
together and remember we are still
cooking at a low flame so mix everything
well a nice pretty well and the best way
as I always say to cook the tomatoes is
to cover it with a lid leave it for five
to seven minutes at a very low flame sit
back relax and then let the steam do all
the magic it's been seven minutes now
and let's see what the status is so here
you have all the ghee Oh wafting up at
the surface it's been boozing out of the
tomatoes which means the tomatoes have
now cooked well along with the masalas
that you added so we'll just give it a
gentle mix for a minute now
now we'll add in a few more spices we'll
add half a teaspoon of carom seeds or
adjoin this is very good for digestion
and the chana actually creates gas to
some people so this is a good thing that
you can add and also for the sourness
we'll add 2 teaspoons of pomegranate
seeds powder which is also called a
anartha ma if you remember we added only
3 tomatoes and that was the reason
because we are going to add a lot of
what he calls spices which will add to
the soreness of this recipe one of them
being pomegranate seeds or the anartha
now that we just added them in towards
the end we also will be adding dry mango
powder which is um true but not right
now
in the end now what we'll do is we'll
add that chole or chana water that you
had saved when you boil this chana in
the pressure cooker so we'll add this it
is healthy and it is very good so
probably please do not discard this
water keep it along with you and now we
add this if I try to stir this along
with all the masalas that we have been
preparing since a long long time you
will see that we are having no chunks of
masala in here which is a good thing
let's see that
so here if you observe it's too good we
do not have any chunks or lumps of
masala being formed here and if that is
the case then you'll be adding those
beautiful cabochon us that you had
boiled look at them so gorgeous like
pearls in a cup let's add these gently
pour them down this see there it goes
and of course now the most important
step everything that you have prepared
in the form of masala has to be
incorporated along with the chana
otherwise it will not be called Punjabi
chana masala so mix it up pretty well at
this instance you can increase the flame
slightly to medium and keep mixing it
the best way to cook this is to let it
relax by covering with a lid lowering
the flame once again and then cooking it
for around at least 8 to 10 minutes at a
very very low flame and once again let
this steam do the magic and you relax so
before we do that I forgot one important
thing we'll add 1 TSP of Kasuri methi
which is also called a dry fenugreek
leaves and the way we had this is by
holding it in between your palms and
crushing it nicely and that is the way
you add it so you should never drop it
directly you should just crush it in
between your palms and then add it like
this
so Stan we cover it with the lid please
lower the flame at this instance and let
it cook for at least eight to ten
minutes and it's been eight to ten
minutes now let's observe what the state
is is so almost all of the liquid has
dried up you don't have to you don't
have to dry all the liquid in this there
should be a little amount of moisture
and that is how it works
because if you make it total dry then it
becomes the other recipe which is a
Pindi chana and of course now we'll add
the half teaspoon of dry mango powder
which is also called amateur in the end
and their offers for another sirness
there and a tangy effect to your punjabi
chana masala so like I said you should
not dry up all the liquid in this
otherwise it will taste like the Pindi
chana recipe which also is available on
my website let's focus our camera and
see what we have some delicious nice
chana masala there this is the time
ladies and gentlemen that you can put
off the flame serve the chana masala on
a platter along with some chapatis
topped over with a dressing of onion
rings and a lemon wedge thank you so
much for watching
punjabi channa masala